one two one two one two testing one two one two one
two friday afternoon uh february the 9th have the
honor and pleasure of interviewing dr john klater
we're in the evans library to begin with introduce
yourself tell us all about you and your family
before you came to A&M. Where'd you grow up? What
did mom and dad do? How long did y'all live there?
Where'd you go to high school and so forth? Well, my
name is John Claytor. I was born in Denver,
Colorado March 4th of 1951 when dad was a surgical
resident there in Denver. Dad came to West Texas in
1958 to go into private general surgical
practice. I have three brothers, Mike, class of
68, myself of number two, Tim's class of 74, and
Dan's class of 78. All four of us were in the core,
well, two of us were in the core and two were in the
band. And older brother Mike is a Ph.D. electrical
engineer. I'm a veterinarian. Tim is an
orthopedist in Buffalo, New York, or Rochester,
New York, and Danny is a dentist down in Montrose,
Colorado. Father was, as I said, was a general
surgeon. Mother was a Nebraska farm girl, became a
nurse. And we lived in Midland all the way through
late 50s through the 60s. I came to A&M in the fall of
1968 after graduating from Midland Lee High
School. All right. So the question of why did you
come to A&M? Very simple. I came to A&M. That's
where my older brother had gone. Looking back on
it, parents certainly encouraged it because of
the discipline of the Corps and probably because
it was the cheapest place they could send us, but we
didn't realize that at the time. When my older
brother had come to A&M in 64, we really didn't know
what A&M was about. He was an engineering major and
he was accepted at Rice and at Texas, but engineers
in Midland told my parents that A&M was the best
place to go for engineering because they taught
practical problem solving, not theory. So Mike
was sent off to A&M. CORE was still compulsory, and
he didn't know any better, so letters that came
home didn't register much. They said it was tough,
but that's just the way it is. He lost weight and did
fine. I didn't see him until Thanksgiving, I
guess, of his freshman year. And took him back, I
guess, on Sunday after Thanksgiving. That's the
first time I'd seen A&M, and I kind of hard to fall in
love with a place that looked like truly like
Leavenworth Federal Penitentiary but it was the
neatest thing in the world to me at that time and it
was about commitment and growing up in the
military and it's what I wanted to do so from that
moment on I was really ed up with going to A&M being
in the Corps. And you didn't seriously consider
any other place? No my Grade school teacher,
second and third grade teacher, Mrs. Woodruff in
Sam Houston Elementary, was married to the
president of the West Texas Princeton Club. And
they had wanted me to go to Princeton in the worst
way, and I had the grades to get in and their
support. And I think I broke her heart when I told
her that as a senior in high school that, no, I
wanted to go to A&M. And no, never really looked at
anywhere else and I certainly didn't want to go to
Austin.
And you visited the first time that Thanksgiving.
Did you walk around on the campus much? I did. Of
course it was a different campus than it is today.
In fact, we even spent the night at the MSC. Came
home Monday but got to walk around as I recall and I
mean, I'm a high school freshman and a year younger
than the rest of my class, and I've got total
strangers coming up and saying howdy and asking if
they could help. And I'm not a country kid, but at
the same time, they were pretty outgoing. It was
pretty neat. And I was very impressed with the
Corps. A little overtaken, and my brother was a
freshman at the time, so that wasn't a great time to
be maybe in the Corps of Cadets, but it still
impressed me. When you came to enroll in the fall of
60. Would have been the fall of 68. 68. Did you go to
fish camp? No, didn't. It was, I don't know if it's
compulsory now. It wasn't then. I didn't go. I
spent a summer working in the oil field to make
money for college. How did you get here that fall?
My mother brought me. And dad was busy with
practice, so he couldn't come. What did you bring?
Knowing a little bit about the Corps and what was
required, I brought a footlocker, and that was it.
I had my civilian clothes, the uniforms you pick
up, but everything I had could be packed into a
footlocker, and that's how I went off to college.
And you drove to where? We drove from Midland,
Texas, straight to College Station, and since we
knew where the Corps dorms were, we went and
checked in, and they told us what dormitory to go
to, and mom, kind of interesting, she understood
the drill a whole lot better than I did, and she
stayed at the car. She didn't have to see her baby
off, but another freshman came out, a guy named
Carl Alexander from New Orleans, Louisiana. His
dad was vice president of Texaco for the Caribbean
and South America. We ended up rooming together
for a semester. And that's another story, but this
fish came out in a t-shirt and blue jeans and said,
hi, I'm Carl Alexander from New Orleans,
Louisiana. And I'd never heard anybody talk like
that, but he grabbed one end of the footlocker and
off we went. And mom gave me a squeeze and that was
it. And it didn't dawn on me that I'd just been cast
to the wolves. your parents or anyone else give you
any kind of final advice as you kind of broke away
from home that fall? It's an older gentleman that
lives south of Jersey Street. I guess it's George
Bush Street now. I believe last name was
Callender. They had little, they'd take
girlfriends in on the weekends and whatnot.
People could stay down there a couple blocks south
of the school and he told me around that time
period. It wasn't on that trip, but it was perhaps
right before, maybe a previous visit right before
that, no, I guess it was that same weekend. He said,
if you ever get your tail in a crack, give me a call.
And it took me a little while to figure out what he
was talking about, but I never did, but he was a
wonderful old gentleman that had seen
generations of Aggies come through College
Station. All right, and you had no second thoughts
at all when mom drove away or anything like that.
You knew that this is where you wanted to go. That's
what I wanted to do. But I had been, with my older
brother having gone through four years, and I'd
been in College Station, been to TU football
games, knew some of the guys that were in his
outfit. I thought I had some idea of how the system
worked. Now, that bubble was burst about two hours
later when I ran into my first sophomore. Describe
that. He was a sophomore from another outfit. And I
had just dropped my stuff off and had gone to the
Memorial Student Center and came back around. And
there was a freshman doing push-ups over right
next to the fence with Kyle Field. And it was just
that same afternoon. And there were two
sophomores there. And one of them was named
Emmons, and he was the one that was in charge. The
other one was named Wasaki. And I remember that
because we used to call him Mr. Wallsocket. But
they had a freshman down doing push-ups for
whatever sin he'd committed. And since I was a
freshman, I was called in to participate. Wasn't
in my outfit, didn't have a thing to do with it, but I
was there. So I spent about an hour and a half over
there until I couldn't do much more. And my other
fish buddy had thrown up on the sidewalk there in
the sun, and then they let us go. And then I decided
that perhaps there was a little bit more to the
Corps of Cadets than I realized. And you were in
what outfit? I was in Squadron 6. Did it have a
nickname? Savage 6. Savage 6. How did, do you know
how you ended up in that outfit? You had two outfits
that were primarily pre-vet outfits. And I
declared pre-vet medicine as a preliminary
major. It was made up of ag majors and pre-vet
students. With C1 in the Army side and Squadron 6 on
the Air Force side. and B1 on the Army side being
pre-vet outfits pretty much. And in what
dormitory? Dorm 8 was the bottom floor. And you
ended up, how'd you get a roommate that first year?
Just, he walked in that night, and name was Mark
Taylor from Houston, Texas, and Mark lasted one
semester at A&M, and that was it. Nice guy. Did he,
yeah.
You were talking about this roommate. Mark
Taylor, yes. And I don't remember how or why Mark
came to be in the Corps, but there were 56 of us that
started, yeah, that was the fall of 68. Anyway, 56
of us started in Squadron 6, and I believe eight of
us graduated four years later. about how many of
those came back in the Corps the second year? We,
let's see, I think we returned a pretty large
percentage. There were only six sophomores above
us because the previous year, due to the class, it
would have been the class of 71, their freshman
year, there was an early football game. It was
going to be on national TV with SMU. And in order to
get the outfits and the freshmen whipped into
shape, they really worked on them awful hard. And I
know squadron six was not the only one, but they
lost a tremendous number of freshmen and only had
six sophomores come back. We returned probably in
excess of 20. Describe how you and that fish old
lady got acquainted and what was the room like and
so forth. Well, I'd gotten there first and my older
brother told me that you always wanted the bottom
bunk. Nobody's, you know, you could get in and out
easier and it was a little darker down there. You
got two desks, you got two closets, you don't have
anything else. It didn't really make any
difference. So I had my stuff on one side and he came
in and I he didn't much care so we just you do this do
that okay and he was clueless he didn't know
anything about the Corps of Cadets he just shown up
and there he was and I didn't know a whole lot more so
we didn't didn't have a whole lot to share that
first first few weeks he was pre-vet and don't know
whatever happened to him but he he decided A&M
wasn't for him and he left it mid semester how did
you get your schedule of courses for that fall did
you go through registration went through
registration where was it and i don't remember g
raleigh or uh sabisa i think i would think that it
was not not at sabisa for me uh and it may have been i
believe it was done during a summer orientation. I
suspect that's when it was. That's not clear. I
don't have a good memory of that. But that's my
recollection that I was pretty well set in my
coursework when I showed up that fall. I didn't
have to stand in line to go to registration. Do you
describe what you recall of those first classes?
The first day of class. Now, you're there in the
Corps. You're learning to drill. You're learning
to march. We'd learn how to put your uniforms on,
and they're going through things, and you don't
know. But I remember the first day of class when
this same Carl Alexander, who was not my roommate,
but the kid from New Orleans, it had a light rain
that morning, and we're leaving for our first day
of classes, and he heads down the quad with an
umbrella. And you don't do this when you're under
military cover. But he didn't know because he grew
up in New Orleans High Society, and you never went
outside without your umbrella. And he made it all
the way to the end of the quad before somebody
realized this isn't right. There wasn't
something they couldn't put their finger on it,
but they, it was, it was wild, uh, classes. I had,
uh, an honors algebra class, had a lady professor
was quite good and thorough and no problems. Uh,
freshman chemistry. I can remember sitting. in
freshman chemistry late that Monday morning and
the professor saying, look to your left and look to
your right. You've heard it before, but I'll tell
you that only one third of you will be here next
semester for the second half of this course. And we
all kind of chuckled and that's exactly what it
was.
I can remember trying to get to class and having to
whip out and meet upperclassmen and sometimes not
being able to get to class because you'd hike off to
the architecture building or to the MSC and you had
a class in another building. You couldn't leave
that upperclassman or get away from him, so I
remember that. Any other classes you remember
that fall or spring, that freshman year? Well,
Honors American History. There was a Dr. Haskell
Monroe. And I can honestly say that it was
probably, in many ways, the most challenging
class. Not necessarily the hardest, but it was the
most challenging class I had because Dr. Monroe
would frequently give me a hard time about being in
the Corps. Why don't you get out? Why are you
staying in? I was in the Honors Colloquia. It was a
smaller American history class. It's also the
first class that somebody said, get a blue book and
write down everything you know. I don't care about
your spelling or your handwriting or your
punctuation or your grammar, but write down
everything you know about this subject or that
subject. And he'd only give us a test with two or
three subjects. So these are things that some 30
years later you remember, 32 years later, you
remember well. And these are things that prepare
you when You're sitting in a boardroom at the Royal
Veterinary College in London, England, and
somebody wants you to tell what you have just seen
of their college, and don't pull any punches. And
it was easy to do, and the first thing I thought was
my blue book. In that class were a group of
sophomores and some freshmen, some that went on
with me, maybe one or two to vet school, others to
other professions. One, Dr. I believe it was Andy
Anderson, who you probably remember. Was a
sophomore at that time and has gone on to great
things. I believe he's a thoracic surgeon. And a
few others that have done things. So it was an
interesting group. And what I hope was
understandable when I was challenging people
like you on the Corps is are you doing what you want
to do? Have you thought it through? If you haven't,
do. You've got a choice, make it. That's right. And
it was an interesting, let's qualify that for the
record. This is the fall of 68. It's the height of
the Vietnam War. In many ways, we felt like it was us
against the rest of the world. Right or wrong, we
were in the military, and that's the way we felt.
During those first months, did you ever think
about dropping out, going somewhere else? I never
did. I had a girlfriend at Baylor, and you know, you
miss seeing your girlfriend, but no other school
held it for me. I did find it harder than I expected.
It didn't kill me, but it was harder. I lost a little
weight. I remember what it was like those first
three weeks of waking up with a knot in my stomach.
Never had that experience in my life. It was okay
though, but I really didn't know this was it.
Nobody in Midland, Texas wanted to hear that I
wanted to come home, so it was sink or swim. And how
often that fall did you communicate with family?
Letters or phone calls? Probably weekly letters.
Long distance. Phones cost money back then, so we
didn't call much, but frequent letters back and
forth. My dad wasn't a letter writer. Every once in
a while he'd jot a little something down, but nice
letters from home, care packages. You remember
those, especially as a freshman. when, you know,
we called it kush, but when cookies or popcorn or
something came, or maybe cookies with popcorn
packed around them, and it didn't take long, and
you could figure out whose mothers were good at
sending stuff and if it was going to be edible. I had
one guy that had a very wonderful, dutiful
girlfriend that was the worst cook in the world.
And so, you know, that stuff we let the
upperclassmen feast on. You went to the dining
hall, to Duncan. What was the routine in your
outfit in the dining hall? Well, of course, we ate
family style. We blocked in. We had our area to sit
in, and we had assigned seats. We would have either
juniors or seniors on the row, the non-walking
aisle where the support pillars were, then a
freshman that would give meal service to them,
then a sophomore, and then freshman again. And the
freshman on the end would run hot corner. You would
alternate between giving meal service to a white
belt or being on hot corner and that would change
probably oh on a every other week basis uh... that
sort of thing the uh... kids that ran hot corner
would take the order from the waiters that came and
the other freshmen were strictly to feed the and
take care of the upperclassmen which uh... our
commanding officer was from wall texas a big tall
German guy named George Schriever and George was
about six foot six almost too tall to get an Air
Force contract but just just barely made it big
ugly scar-faced cotton farmer from Wall Texas and
one of my fondest recollections about meal
service was when it was raining it was early spring
of my freshman year and somebody had stolen a fetal
pig from the biology lab and Keith Schwartz was the
only Jewish kid we had in the outfit. He only lasted
two semesters, but he contrived to hang this fetal
pig between his legs and made it all the way to chow
underneath his raincoat. Nobody could see it.
Even with formaldehyde, they didn't smell it. We
got it all the way in, and then they snuck it under
the table. to me and I placed it on our commanding
officer's plate and cut it up and stuck a fork in it.
And needless to say, he didn't pay any attention to
what he was eating until he nearly got it in his
mouth. And we paid a very heavy price for that, but
it was worth it. Now that's a superb Good Bull
story. The fetal pig that went to chow. Were there
cush questions at your table? Every night. Sample
some of them for us. You know, I'll tell you one. We
had to make up Aggie jokes. We went through a period
that we had to have a new Aggie joke or we couldn't
eat. We had guys getting old Polish joke books,
bohunk joke books, whatever it took, joke books
from relatives, anything they could find. And the
upperclassmen, we went through about a six-week
period, didn't have a new Aggie joke. We got turned
away at the door. We marched a child. We turned
away. So that didn't take long, and we became very,
very good at reciting Aggie jokes. A Cush question
that I got the other day, an example. How many stars
are there in the Texas flag?
I don't know. Sure you do. In the Texas flag? Not the
American flag, just the Texas flag. Oh, what? No,
there's two. There's one on each side. That's
right. And if you had said two, he'd said, no, it's
one. It goes all the way through. You can't win on a
cush question. See, there's no answer to a cush
question. And the reason they have a cush question
is because the upperclassman that asks, you're
betting on the food. And if it's something that he
wants, okay, it's a double or nothing deal. If you
get it right, it's yours. If you lose, it's mine. So
that they ask a question for which they know
whatever answer you give, they're not going to
accept it. Now, I'll take cush questions to
another level. Had one upperclassman named Bill
Hall, he was our first sergeant, and Bill did not
like cobbler. Didn't like the crumbly cob, it was
great, but he didn't like it. And if we ever ate a
meal that his roommate wasn't there, Rick
Fitzhugh, Bill would ask, because he loved to get
one step ahead of the sophomores before the cush
questions, and he would say, Fish Jones, which
piece is yours and if you ever asked a freshman
which piece was his he was to take his fist and bury
it in the middle of the cobbler pot just like this
one sir and cawap and the stuff flew all over the
table hit the sophomores hit the freshmen but they
couldn't do anything because that was legal so
they didn't get their cush and they got a dirty
uniform instead now the freshmen usually paid for
it later on but That was a good bull. Lots of
campusology, lots of questions. All the
nicknames of the food, did you ever get into
trouble with any of the food nicknames or the chow
hall slang back home that you forgot what you were
about to say? Well, mayonnaise was called cum, you
know, like an ejaculate. And I sat there at home and
I said, shoot the cum, please. And my little
brother looked at me and just, what are you talking
about? Mustard
was baby, that was fine. Blood, bull neck. It was
worse at my girlfriend's house because they had no
clue.
her mother got a little upset that I referred to
steak one night as bull neck not meaning to but she
mistakenly thought that I was liking that to the
quality of her cooking and she was from
Mississippi and she took umbrage with that but
anyway that's another story student nicknames
were there some good nicknames in your outfit oh
there were just like any others we had a guy named
Frank Strother from Jasper and Frank was probably
one of the uglier individuals that God created,
and so we call him the sloth. He looked like a sloth.
Let's see. Glenn Honaker from... Fort Stockton
with his short haircut, had white sidewalls and a
little short haircut and kind of reddish hair, and
somebody said he looked like a lit cigarette. He
never got rid of the nickname, and to this day, I was
at the governor's swearing in, and somebody said,
cigarette! I mean, that is his name, so you can't
get away from it, even though he hates it. What was
yours? Once I got into vet school, they called me
Doc, and that was probably it, nothing. Remember
one from the freshman year? No, I don't recall. I
don't think I really had one. Carl Alexander, some
of them called him Kunas or Kuni, which he hated
because he was from New Orleans High Society and he
was not, in his mind, was not Cajun, was not a Kunas,
so he didn't like that.
Let's see, who else? Were the nicknames a put-down
term? are in effect a kind of a backhanded term of
recognition. Always a term of recognition.
Nicknames are only meaningful in families. And
the core was family. So no, they were strictly. And
so many people refer to people by their last name.
dropping handles and having upperclassmen call
you by your Christian name or your first name was a
special thing but in amongst your own class you
never referred to anybody by their first name but
it was always by the last name and again that was uh
that was part of being family and among when you
were with some of those old outfit mates are the
nicknames still used oh yeah just like uh right
there and uh in the rotunda of the capitol somebody
else cigarette uh Joe Weber would be the first
member of our class, I guess, to get a star as a
brigadier in the Marine Corps. And somehow he got
the name of Joe Buck. And to this day, I don't care if
he's got a star or what. If I see him, it's Joe Buck.
And it's just the way it is. Are there some
friendships you made that freshman year that have
lasted? I was telling Kyle on the way up here today
about how quickly you forget high school, at least
I did, and yet the friendships of the Corps, it is
truly, I saw two members that I hadn't seen since
final review in Austin last month, and it was like
yesterday. And so, yes, they're very deep,
lasting friendships. Politically, they're on
different sides of the fence, but both John Sharp
and Rick Perry were in my outfit. And we all, when
you live together, you die together. Chris
Roberts runs Federal Land Bank out in Leveland and
Brownfield. I haven't seen Chris in, I guess,
since Final Review, and yet I've talked to him on
the phone a couple times. And it's as if it were
yesterday. Deep lasting friendships, there's no
question. Carl Alexander, my freshman roommate
second semester, went back to Louisiana. He
really wanted to be part of the LSU scene. This is
where he was raised, what he wanted to do, and to be a
cheerleader at LSU. This is a big social thing, and
to be Sigma Chi, and he did it. And he ended up being a
cheerleader and did his fraternity stuff. but to
this day we're still close friends and it's
because of our time at A&M. It's a thing that his dad
was class of 46 i think but um it really yeah you bond
and it you don't you don't ever forget it uh rick and
john were in your outfit in my outfit right
describe them as freshmen as you recall both were
politicians from the get-go which i i think you
find in retrospect find interesting i can
remember uh rick Rick's official lady was a guy
named Chico Tuttle, Carl Tuttle. I don't have any
idea what happened to him, but he was gone after our
freshman year. Rick comes in, and the first thing
he does is put a picture of a stunning brunette on
his dresser. Turns out it was his older sister,
Milla. But Rick's no fool. He puts that in. The
upperclassmen come in and say, whoa, who's this?
And it depended on what, you know, what
upperclassmen. If a sophomore, you didn't care.
But if a junior or senior asked, oh, that's my
sister, Milla. And so Rick used Milla as bait. And
quite effectively, a number of the upperclassmen
had dates with her. She's a wonderful lady.
Sharp, same way. Didn't have a picture of his
sister, but always politicking. Both of them got
along well with everyone else. Did they have
nicknames?
Sharp, somebody, we called him Shapp without the
R. I was like you from the Lower East Side in
Manhattan. And occasionally, some people call
Ricky, Ricky Perry. Rick, they called him Ricky
because he used to dislike it, and so we called him
Ricky, but I don't recall any other nicknames.
Both were good, loyal, strong outfit buddies. Did
they get into their share of freshman mischief?
Same as all, we were one for all, all for one. We had
talked about the M-80 story. I manufactured the
M-80s for the outfit. I've always liked
pyrotechnics and had the wherewithal to make. It
takes about 60 to 70 black cat firecrackers to make
one M-80, and you've emptied out the gunpowder and
put it in an M-80 case and a little waterproof
cannon fuse, and you can flush it down anything.
Where did you get the, did you always buy the
firecrackers? I had the stuff, the firecrackers
you could buy, in those days you could buy
anywhere, and then I bought M-80 cases from a place
in Arizona, and cannon fuse you could buy,
advertised in a magazine, waterproof cannon
fuse. So that one that John Sharp told me about the
guy sitting on the stool reading the bat,
you were a... It was an outfit production, but they
were the ones that did it. What kind of punishment
did anybody get as a result of that prank? I can't, I
don't remember. I don't know if we got caught. I was
going to say, must not... I don't, the key, there's
the right way and the wrong way and the Aggie way.
The key is not to get caught. Anybody can pull off
something and get caught. No, the key is to not get
caught. I guess back to the sadistic sophomore
named Emmons that... crapped me out the first day I
was at A&M. He was in squadron eight, and he was bad
about that to the point that our upperclassmen
took him to task a couple times. But he was bad about
using an axe handle and that sort of thing. He'd
gotten onto some of our freshmen. It was in the
spring of our freshman year, and it had hurt one a
little bit, and we'd had a lot of problems with him.
So we called in a hit man from squadron 11. And the
guy that came over had one of those tear gas pins.
Emmons lived on the fourth floor, and so we fixed
his door so he couldn't get out and lost the tear gas
pin under the door. Well, he was a Marine wannabe
and rappelled out of his window, but the rope
broke, and he broke his ankles, and that's the last
we saw of Mr. Emmons.